# Portfolio Self Assesment

This program has been so enlightening as I was at a point in my life where I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do as a career. I started investing my time in computer science after a class I had taken at a community college, and it opened a door to computer science for me. I haven’t really found anything like computer science that I feel like I am not really working, but I am experimenting with a new medium that I really excel at. I will say that in the course where I have constructed my portfolio, I really found out how important time management is in this field as well. I have gone through many major life events lately that have taken a toll on my mental health, and I have found it extremely difficult to manage my time properly because of that. I know how important it is to my education and future career that I will need to make more time for additional learning for all the topics that exist in computer science, because there are so many different career paths in this field. I always tell employers that what I lack in experience, I make up with how hard I work to achieve my goals. Though I haven’t included all my computer science work in this portfolio, this is a great start; I do appreciate the professor of the course where I assembled my ePortfolio, for the layout and the introduction to Github and I will be expanding my portfolio to show all the things I have worked with while attending Southern New Hampshire University. I currently work as an Electromechanical technician for a production company where I work alongside other mechanics to meet the manufacturing needs of our companies, and when we have major events that occur, we are constantly communicating across all shifts to ensure we are running as efficiently as possible. The work I will go further into and explain, show off my abilities in the computer science field, which include many different topics.

All the artifacts up to this point in my portfolio touch on a few important topics which include data structures and algorithms, software engineering and design, databases, and security. The artifact where I recreate the 3D scene in OpenGL is a great example of how I execute accordingly to software design and engineering; This was a project that I started from scratch and had a program that ran in the visual studio environment with the textures and shaders to make it lifelike. I took the project and made it executable in WebGL which is another version of OpenGL and shows how I can take something I have created and modify the program to make it applicable for other programs. Another artifact I have included that shows off my ability to work in the computer science industry is the appointment application I have made from a simple program I wrote in a previous course. I took a simple program that used an array and made it applicable in the real world. I have included test scripts that you should be able to run in the main program which proves the effectiveness of the program. Lastly, I have taken a course where we learned about database security and management, and I created a user-friendly HTML interface with the database so users can access all the information in the database for their needs. In that class, I created a database that had admin level access and a user level access that was more restricted than the admin user. Online security is so important with keeping information safe, any little step we can take to be more secure, the better off our sensitive data will be. I like to ensure that client experience is frictionless, while they are free to use the programs I develop and being secured from any dangerous online threat there might be. I hope this portfolio translates my abilities in the computer science field, and I will continue to put my time and effort in to expanding this portfolio. 

Each topic is seperated by branch please explore and give feedback if you have any!
